Updating Activities per archetypes. (#1031)
temporalio/documentation: docs/java/how-to-develop-an-activity-definition-in-java.md

---
id: how-to-develop-an-activity-definition-in-java
title: How to develop an Activity Definition in Java
sidebar_label: Activity Definition
description: In the Temporal Java SDK programming model, Activities are classes which implement the ActivityInterface Interface.
tags:
  - java
  - developer-guide
---

> In the Temporal Java SDK programming model, [Activities](/docs/concepts/what-is-an-activity) are classes which implement the Activity interface.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the Temporal Java SDK programming model, an [Activity Definition](/docs/concepts/what-is-an-activity) is the complete combination of a Java Class implementing a specially annotated Java Interface.
```

Curious if this resonates with you?

Author: Updated to "An [Activity Definition](/docs/concepts/what-is-an-activity) is a combination of the Temporal Java SDK [Activity](https://www.javadoc.io/static/io.temporal/temporal-sdk/0.19.0/io/temporal/activity/Activity.html) Class implementing a specially annotated interface."

May rephrase this later.

> ## Activity interface

Reviewer: I would drop all these to h4s

To overwrite this default naming and assign a custom Activity Type, use the `@ActivityMethod` annotation with the `name` parameter. In the following example, the Activity Type is set to "greet".

```java
@ActivityInterface
public interface GreetingActivities {
    @ActivityMethod(name = "greet")
    String composeGreeting(String greeting, String language);
}
```

You can also define a prefix for all of your Activity Types using the `namePrefix` parameter with the `@ActivityInterface` annotation. The following example shows a `namePrefix` parameter applied to the `@ActivityInterface`, and two Activity methods, of which one is defined using the `@ActivityMethod` annotation.

```java
@ActivityInterface(namePrefix = "A_")
Public interface MyActivity {
    String doSomething(String input);

  @ActivityMethod(name = "abc")
  String doSomethingElse();
}
```

In this example, the Activity type for the first method is set to "A_DoSomething". The Activity type for the method annotated with `@ActivityMethod` is set to "A_abc".

## Activity implementation

> An Activity implementation is Java class which implements an Activity Interface.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An Activity implementation is a Java class which implements an Activity annotated interface.
```

Example:

```java
  public class MultiLanguageGreeting implements GreetingsActivities {
    private final TranslationService translationService;

    public MultiLanguageGreeting(TranslationService translationService) {
      this.translationService = translationService;
    }

    @Override

>     public String composeGreeting(String greeting, String language) {

Reviewer: I think we are missing information about method parameters and return values.

I think similarly to Go, in Java we recommend passing a custom param type so that you can iterate on the individual parameters without breaking the method signature.

      return translationService.translate(greeting, language);
    }
  }
```

> ### Dynamic Activities

Reviewer: Might want to call out that the interface is available from the SDK: https://www.javadoc.io/doc/io.temporal/temporal-sdk/latest/io/temporal/activity/DynamicActivity.html
